15/02/2023 - Update: QVirtualPad now allows to include the source code folder as a subroject trough ```include``` directive.
Download ```qvirtualpad``` directory into your application source folder and then add ```include (qvirtualpad/qvirtualpad.pri)``` line to your ```.pro``` file.

17/02/2023 - Update: QVirtualPad plugin is now working but the distribution of the widget is still based on the source code. If you wish to install the plugin you need to load the ```VirtualPad.pro``` file in QtCreator and build it. Pay attention to compile messages since in many cases you will encounter errors during the plugin installation. This depends on operating system, Qt release, user privilegs and finally on the way you installed Qt and related tools on your system. Anyway at the end of the build phase either you have the plugin installed correctly or, if the installation is gone wrong, you will have a file called ```libvirtualpadplugin.so``` on your build folder. This file must be copied inside the designer plugin folder: where this folder is located depends on the type of Qt installation, if you are using standard system Qt installation on Ubuntu 20.04 the folder is located in: ```/usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/qt5/plugins/designer/```.
Please note that if your Qt release is different from the release on which is based your QtCreator binary the plugin will probably not be loaded (to check the Qt release used by QtCreator look into QtCreator about dialog).
In some cases a malfunctioning plugin could prevent QtCreator from opening in such case remove the installed plugin from the QtCreator/QtDesigner plugin directory. 
If everything goes fine QVirtualPad widget will be available at the very bottom of QtCreator widget pallette (Custom Widgets folder).
